That's about it...
Scouting complete.
Same as usual, nothing suspicious.
It's another nice day.
Granny, hurry! Hurry!
Now, now. Don't be so hasty.
A stick of this after a mission...
This is what I live for.
C'mon, hurry and pick a card.
Byakugan!
H-Hey! No fair!
You can't use Byakugan in a game!
Well, I guess I'll start on the next report that's due.
Is he from...the Akatsuki?!
Right! Must report this to Lady Hokage!
What?!
The time has come.
What did I really lose that day?
ano hi honto ni ushinatta monotte nan dattakke
For the life of me, I can't remember.
tou ni wasureteshimatta yo
We slowly lost sight of each other in the twilight...
yuugure de futari sukoshizutsu mienakunatteitte
And yet we're stuck here - unable to go home.
sore nanoni bokura kaerezu ni ita
Weak, frail souls lost in the world...
dokoka ni kowaresou na moroi kokoro
We act strong to hide their fragility.
tsuyogaru kotoba de ootte kakushiteru
Hide their fragility... ootte kakushiteru
So farewell, but even forced apart...
sayonara aenakunattatte Our stories go on.
bokura wa tsuzuki ga aru kara
Even in a world without you, I run.
kimi no inai sekai datte hashiru yo
To someday get past the pain.
itsuka no itami mo koete
koete Someday...
Assault on the Leaf Village!
CIPHER DIVISION Lord Jiraiya sent back three sources of information...
Namely, a ninja from the Hidden Rain...
Pain's corpse...and...
this secret message.
Knowing Inoichi in the Intel Division,
he'll be able to get some kind of information
out of the Hidden Rain ninja.
Master Shizune has put top priority
on the autopsy of Pain's corpse.
She's sure to learn something too.
And this message we decoded with help from Naruto...
"The-Real-One's-Not-Among-Them."
We'll have to take all this information
and figure out the mystery behind this guy named Pain.
The mystery of someone who could even take down Lord Jiraiya.
HIDDEN LEAF INTEL DIVISION
A genjutsu block...
I'm going to take a peek into your mind.
So many genjutsu blocks...
No wonder truth serum didn't work on him.
How did it go?
It's no use...
Someone's placed blocks inside his mind.
It's going to be difficult to navigate past them.
It's probably some jutsu placed on him by the one named Pain.
Please be careful, Inoichi.
There may be genjutsu traps set in there as well.
Yes, I'm aware of that.
AUTOPSY ROOM 3 SHIZUNE OYONE KUMADORI
These black rods, which were embedded in the corpse...
Could they be a special feature of these men known as Pain?
Why did they embed this into the body?
I must learn more about
the properties of this metal before the autopsy.
CIPHER DIVISION "The-Real-One's-Not-Among-Them."
Maybe the six Pains were genjutsu...
A jutsu created by the female Akatsuki member
who was also said to be present.
And she's the one who physically attacked Lord Jiraiya
from the shadows.
No... That's hard to imagine.
According to Lord Fukasaku,
Lord Jiraiya died from being stabbed by real weapons
wielded by all six of them.
Well, he took down three of them,
but they supposedly resurrected themselves...
It does sound like some unbelievable genjutsu.
Common sense has no meaning when it comes to the Akatsuki.
There have been others who were immortal.
In any case, let's keep hypothesizing all possible scenarios
until we get reports from the others.
You're right.
Let's at least be a little closer to solving Pain's mystery
by the time Naruto returns from his training.
Well then...
I'm going to procure us some fresh ingredients.
Not more of that gross stuff... Aw man...
Ma! Make sure you get some stamina-building stuff!
You are able to mold Sage Jutsu chakra
and have pretty much mastered Frog Kumite and Sage Techniques.
Now I have one final thing to say to you.
Wh-What is it? You're suddenly so serious.
Well... It's about the risks of using Sage Mode.
Risks?
Yes... Once you fully grasp the risks involved,
then you can use Sage Mode to its fullest extent!
So, what are the risks?
First, as you're probably aware,
you can't maintain Sage Mode for too long.
Maybe five minutes at most.
Also, to amass the Nature Energy necessary to enter Sage Mode,
you must follow the principle of staying still.
Thus, it cannot be used once you begin battle.
For when you are still,
you become an easy target for your enemy.
Ow!
I see... Right?
So the only time you can go into Sage Mode is
when you've got plenty of comrades around you
that can free you up.
If you are alone, but must go into Sage Mode,
withdraw from the battle momentarily and gather Nature Energy.
What?! Then Sage Mode is useless!
So what was all this training for?!
Don't be so disappointed.
That is why I am here, to alleviate that risk.
What do you mean?
If you and I merge our bodies, it'll be fine!
No!!
When I say merge,
it simply means to be lightly attached to your shoulder or back.
Oh, that's all...
But how does merging make things fine?
Simply put, it's to split the roles of stillness and action.
When one is moving,
the other stays still and gathers Nature Energy.
In Jiraiya-boy's case, the final form of his Sage Mode
had Ma and me both riding his shoulders.
I see... I get it now...
Don't you worry, Naruto-boy!
Okay!
From here on,
we'll be splitting into two teams: diversion and search.
I'll go over it again.
Diversion will be made up of Shurado, Chikushodo, and Gakido.
Search will be Tendo, Ningendo, and Jigokudo.
Konan, you're with the search team.
I know.
The Hidden Leaf Village...
is surrounded by a spherical barrier that
includes underground and aerial coverage.
Which means anyone who enters without permission
is detected immediately.
As planned, we will launch Chikushodo
into the Hidden Leaf's aerial space.
We will confuse the enemy
by not giving them an accurate count.
Wait for Chikushodo's summoning.
I was told Itachi and Kisame infiltrated easily.
Itachi once belonged to the Leaf's Anbu Black Ops.
He knew the password to get through the barrier.
I have my own way of doing things.
Starting here, the world shall know pain...
An intruder!
Single target, west gate, sector I-B
Hurry, hurry!
Yes, I'm coming dear.
AUTOPSY ROOM 3 SHIZUNE OYONE KUMADORI
Thanks for the food!
Yes, thank you!
Disperse!
What is that?
Fire Style: Fire Ball Jutsu!
My Fire Style has no effect!
It's all over the place! What's going on?!
I thought there was just one intruder!
I'll confirm with the Byakugan right away!
This is beyond the scope of just the Barrier Corps!
Contact other troops and request backup! Hurry!
Right!
I'll go notify Lady Hokage!
He holds no information on the Nine-Tails.
Where is Naruto Uzumaki?
He doesn't know either...
AUTOPSY ROOM 3 SHIZUNE OYONE KUMADORI
The chakra meter shot up suddenly and the black rod began warming up,
so I thought it was strange.
These are demodulators for receiving high frequency chakra waves.
Demodulator? Which means what?
In other words, they're chakra receivers!
And, it's receiving at this very moment!
Receiver? What do you mean?
If this is a receiver...
I don't have time to explain.
I have to notify Lady Tsunade immediately...
CIPHER DIVISION
What was that?
What's that?
Let's go!
HIDDEN LEAF INTEL DIVISION
Found it!
What was that?
Choji! I'll notify the Intel Division.
Right!
I have to get to Pa!
Father! The village is...
Run!
Tami!
Cha!
Are you all right?!
U-Uh-huh.
Th-Thank you so much!
The centipede is down... Seems that girl did it.
Thank goodness! Your wound is not too deep.
Thank you...
Sakura!
Are you all right?
Iruka Sensei... Just what's going on?
I don't know.
But someone is attacking the Leaf Village!
The situation has been reported to Lady Tsunade.
The alarm should sound soon.
The village is under direct attack?
Who would do such a thing?
Let's go, Iruka!
Right!
Sakura, hurry to the hospital and tend to the wounded.
It's full of injured people.
Yes, sir!
It can't be...
Miss...
It's going to be all right!
We have Lady Hokage on our side!
Uh-huh!
Barrier Corps reporting!
An intruder entered Hidden Leaf Village through our air space.
Our sensors picked up a single target.
But shortly after detection, several attacks were confirmed.
Analysis Corps reporting!
Enemy strength estimated as three battalions in size!
A foe capable of organizing this much military power unnoticed...
It must be...
Reporting! I have a witness report on the intruder!
He wore black with a red cloud pattern.
The Akatsuki... So they've finally come.
I can't help but hope that he is the Child of Prophecy.
For Jiraiya-boy has entrusted his all to that child.
Sound the state of emergency alarm.
And...
Recall Naruto!
Who do you think you are?!
Still treating him like a mere child!
The will of the Hidden Leaf has been passed on,
and it's growing!
Naruto strives to surpass Jiraiya this very minute!
Just as my grandfather, the First Hokage,
believed and entrusted the Leaf to you.
It is now your turn to believe and entrust to the next generation!
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "Power to Believe"
Tune in again!